nobody seems to be motivated
economically or
politically to cross-examine the
mediocrity
of our higher education system let alone
to carry out experiments
or innovations that could fundamentally
improve it
in terms of what's possible within my
lifetime
we need more dissent we need more
demands
for fundamental radical change
[Music]
i'm very skeptical about this kind of
question because i'm aware of what an
atypical language learner i am myself
i'm really deeply aware that what works
for me
doesn't work for 98 of other people
trying to learn a language so i'm
actually open to the
radical disruptive possibility that what
goes on in the classroom should be 100
spoken language
or that the most effective method could
actually be
zero percent spoken language because to
some extent this is a judgment on human
nature itself as a judgment on what kind
of person learns a language with what
kind of motivations
what they do outside of the classroom
what they learn despite formal education
there are a lot of variables here i
can't pretend to know
without doing the research the question
is
who is going to do the research
[Music]
when you're talking about science and
when you're talking about the impacts
science will have on society
it's very important to separate things
that are unknowable
from things that merely happen to be
unknown there's always going to be
a political or economic explanation
for why things remain unknown
that are in fact knowable scientific
research
can cost millions of dollars and if you
were the one
paying or investing those millions of
dollars
what are the odds that this research
will actually
earn back your investment in some cases
there's
absolutely no chance of you earning any
money
whatsoever out of scientific research
we knew a woman who had a three-legged
dog
she believed in the vegan diet
not only for humans but also for dogs
she fed this dog a strictly vegan diet
it had a whole series of unbelievable
health problems she got advice from all
the best websites
you know she downloaded seemingly well
researched scientific claims
of what you should feed your dog if you
wanted to have a vegan diet and in her
case
it just didn't work i remember i talked
to her
about this face to face i was like look
we we barely
we barely know that veganism works for
human beings there hasn't been a whole
hell of a lot of research done
if you take a multivitamin pill every
day and you're vegan you're going to be
fine
that's been established you know but
it's not some big research party
who who would pay millions of dollars to
investigate
the adequacy of a vegan diet for dog
nobody's gonna do that research
nobody can make the money back and
nobody in parliament
is gonna pay for it it's not like a
democratic government is gonna sit down
and say look guys this is a research
priority we need to allocate
money we need to make it a priority to
figure out what is the healthiest diet
for vegan dogs
you know um you're not going to get some
kind of incentive
coming from the military right military
applications
major source of scientific and
technological innovation in our society
we wouldn't have saran wrap without the
us military
trying to research the best way to make
a submachine gun bullet proof when
carrying
it through the swamps of cambodia and
vietnam that's the origin of saran wrap
having this kind of plastic wrap they'd
wrap up the guns
march through the swamp and then you
could you could whip it out and go into
action
if you had to if you got ambushed it was
real quick to tear it off and
go on a true story all right so look
when you talk about scientific progress
talking about what's knowable but still
unknown
you've got to think of this in both
economic
and political terms
what do you think is more effective
having university students take four
different courses
in four years or take the same course
again and again and again and again
does that sound preposterous to you
you know i have a background in the
theater i understand how
theatrical education works for you know
memorizing and performing a script like
let's say it's shakespeare
for memorizing and performing dance
movements physical movements
certain types of music i don't think all
memorizing and performing something
precisely until it's 100
accurate a lot of military education
also has to do with drill with
performing the same set of motions
the same set of actions again and again
and again until it's
perfect all right in a totally
unquestioned manner
what our universities tell people is
51 is a pass it's a d minus
right 75 is fine it's like a b plus
right we had a standard at our
university you needed to get
70 to go from level 1 to level 2
in japanese or chinese though so seventy
percent
seventy percent is good enough then of
course you look at the actual exams
you'll get the actual in class exercise
and to get seventy percent is incredibly
sloppy like the way you're evaluated
you're not remotely mastering the
language material
to get seventy percent it's way more
like thirty percent mastery to get a
creative
of seventy percent because like what's
considered a right answer and a wrong
answer on the exams there's a lot
of leeway right it's not it's not
pushing you to get 100
accuracy right let's say let's say we
take
200 university students and put them
through a normal
university course in chinese
you know normal kind of structures like
look guys you need to really get
70 to pass this course and go on the
next course okay
100 of the students half of the class
you then have go on to the level 2
course new vocabulary new textbook the
sequel
to the level one type so they did one
year of the level one course they go on
to the level two course
normally and then you take the other
half of the students
and you say to them look that wasn't
remotely good enough
you guys didn't really master you didn't
really learn
the vocabulary and the grammar in the
level 1 textbook so you're going to do
it again
and this time you have to aim to get
we are going to push you to achieve
perfection
and the passing grade for this course is
now
95 if you get under 95
you fail we're going to give you the
same lectures
you know like it's not going to be
identical but you're going to come
you're going to have one full year
same amount of time you're going to hear
the same lectures you're going to read
the same stories
in the textbook you're going to have
basically the same tests for the same
vocabulary and the same grammar
but this time you're going to master it
you're going to have it down cold you're
not going to stutter
you are going to come in and when you
have to perform for the class when you
have to perform these dialogues
you are going to perform this is going
to be at the same level of excellence
as performing art school where you're
singing and dancing
so you can be good enough for broadway
so that you can audition
with this your enunciation your
elocution your memorization
how well you speak the language how well
you write the language your handwriting
you're going to take pride in
you are going to give it 110
and you're going to try to get above 95
percent
in this otherwise completely crappy
mediocre
normal university course
this is a two-year experiment with 200
people
which which class do you think is going
to have better results
right i would bet money the class that
takes the same course
twice one year after another you know
ketterous parabus
all things being equal the class that
does the fundamental
level one course twice will have a huge
advantage
in that language for the rest of their
lives because it's the material
taught in the level one course that is
the most
important for you to master it is the
most difficult for you to master
especially in your first year of being
exposed to a totally new language
totally new way of thinking total new
sound system like it's hard to listen to
it's hard to follow
right and also because these are human
beings
who are alive 24 hours a day seven days
a week
and even if they are somewhat bored to
have exactly the same vocabulary and the
same stories and the same exercises
in the classroom right outside of the
classroom they're going to be listening
to this language or practicing they're
going to be doing things to amuse
themselves
with the language to make it interesting
for themselves that's going to remain
their duty
outside of class right this
is the world's simplest experiment
questioning the value of repetition
in language learning is there really any
doubt in your mind
that repetition is a tremendously
important part
of language learning and yet it is not
in any way
part of our university system of
education like our university system
education is based on the idea that
novelty is the most important part of
language acquisition
and again compare that to military
concepts
of education compare that to performing
arts school and the extent to which
language itself
is a performance like you're expected in
a split second
to summon up the vocabulary and perform
in the course of
having a dialogue um
now just say to argue against my
position for a moment i think
some people might say to me that what
i've just proposed makes sense for
chinese maybe it might make sense for
sanskrit latin but that it wouldn't make
sense
for modern french they'd say oh but you
know but there's no point
once you've done the level one course
then you can just go on to level two and
first there's no point it's not
it's not as involuted and complex and
difficult as getting to write the
chinese characters correctly or getting
to
here i completely disagree all right i
live in
canada where i am completely surrounded
by people
who did all of high school and all of
university
studying french and they still suck
at the fundamentals of the french
language that are taught in that
year one level one course they never got
them down they never achieved
perfection they never achieved accuracy
and reliability in nailing those
fundamentals
partly phonetic and phonological partly
grammatical
partly kind of philosophical like the
real rudiments of the language
i once had a conversation with a guy
he was born and raised in sri lanka he
was sinalise
and i was a white guy learning the
ancient language
pali that language palpati is powerfully
linked to
modern sri lanka not worth explaining
the whole socio-linguistic situation we
had this long conversation
uh talking about the history of the
language and how to study it and its
connections to buddhist philosophy and
connections to the history and politics
of sri lanka and he was
very impressed with me i he probably had
never met another white guy who had that
level of
knowledge the language thing and so we
had this this conversation and then he
said to me
he was very dramatic in his matter of
speaking as many many cineledees are
he said you know well show me show me
the textbook you're using like how did
you how did you learn this i was choking
the language
and i said i have it in my pocket of
course which is true back then when i
was studying a language i would i would
carry it on me
you know what i mean and uh it was a
textbook i'd kind of made myself
not worth talking about
and so i i whip i whipped this thing out
you know it's put together from
photocopies
when i say i made it myself you know i
pieced it together myself
and he looks and he says but this but
this is incredibly rudimentary
that like you you must be much too
advanced
and i said to him on the contrary
i'm on page 12 but i know the first 11
pages
exceedingly well
i meant it as a punchline but it was
also
literally true when i studied the pali
language
i memorized every
single word in the textbook
i worked on it thoroughly
all right and all these people like
perceive me as a genius that guy's not
the best
example there were people with phds and
professors i met all these professors
who didn't know any of the stuff i knew
right and the reality was they never
got the foundations they never got their
foundations in the language and then
they never got the foundations in terms
of
philology and they couldn't just pick up
a page in this language and read it and
cope they couldn't deal with the
orthography
the whole whole story of the stuff i've
been around so i've been around a lot of
those guys with phds
and why look i can sympathize the guys i
knew who had phds even
even when their phd was pali they did a
phd just
in this language nothing else right
they had like a one-year university
course doing the fundamentals that they
had to rush through
while they were taking four other
courses depending on your system maybe
six other courses whatever university
system is
right and they probably had a girlfriend
they might have had a part-time job
right and it's this yeah yeah mentality
oh yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah i gotta hustle
i gotta get 75
on the exam i gotta get eighty percent
exam and eighty percent
doesn't mean eighty percent in our
university system not with the knowledge
of languages
i don't know any field of study where
eighty percent really means eighty
percent eighty percent means
good enough right it definitely doesn't
mean
that without any handwritten notes to
help you without being able to use the
dictionary on your mobile phone or
computer that you you know
that vocabulary that you have it down
cold you can summon it up from memory in
a split second
when it's needed that you've really done
the drill to be able to use the language
and even when reading even when doing
rapid reading comprehension reading
comprehension without the aid of a
dictionary without the aid of a computer
or a cell phone right it doesn't mean
you can do any of that getting eighty
percent in large course
and these guys the guys who had phds i
know they then had to roll on
then next year it's a new course and a
new with the language like pal you're
lucky to get two years
of uh university language education and
then you know
everyone's ushering along oh yes well
you know the important thing is to take
this advanced course on linguistic
theory or philosophy
or the history of asia or something
let's let's get you writing essays about
linguistic concepts or sociolinguistics
nobody really cares about whether or not
you have the fundamental
competence in this language i've seen so
many things written by people with phds
who knew less pali than i did
they lacked my confidence in lotion in
thai
in cambodian i have a book review still
up with that
it's like sir i know i know this much
cambodian but i knew more than people
with phds in that field right i know how
the system works
i know it doesn't work and i have
sympathy for the people
who are the greatest victors in that
system the people who are
most privileged by most advantaged by
that system because from my
perspective they are ultimately
its most pathetic victims they end up
with a credential
that says they're fluent in this
language says that they're competent
and they spend their whole lives
struggling
lacking utterly the necessary
confidence i have seen experiments of
this kind done
in sports education i have seen
experiments of this type done
in bodybuilding in sports like baseball
and in sports like basketball where
people really
seriously ask the question what is the
most effective way
to teach someone to throw a ball faster
in baseball
what is the most effective way to
increase people's accuracy
in shooting a basketball and they really
rigorously compare
different methodologies of teaching and
bodybuilding it's all on another level
is it more effective to lift twice as
much
weight in three weeks or to more
gradually increase your weight
all of that gets tested rigorously
all right and of course there are
economic
explanations for that more than there
are political
in this case i have never seen and never
heard of
any study that simply compared the
efficacy
of having more and less emphasis
on the spoken elements of language
i've seen so many people with phds shout
out to victor mayer who's a complete
imbecile
great example of an episode with a phd
by the way i've seen so many people
making
grandiose claims that their own method
of language learning alone
is superior because of its emphasis
on spoken language or its emphasis on
written language this kind of thing
i have never seen anyone say divide a
body
of 400 students into four groups let's
just ask ourselves hypothetically
what will be more effective if we spend
absolutely zero time
in class speaking where the spoken
component of the language
is zero this is a scenario
i have lived through at the university
of victoria
absolutely zero spoken
language and why because it's expensive
to actually pay a professor or tutor to
sit there and speak with you and correct
your speaking
whereas it's cheap to just give a
lecture to 40 students or 400 students
who sit in silence and take notes
there's an economic reason why silent
note taking and people doing
multiple choice exams while listening to
an audio cd playing these sorts of
things
take priority in the university setting
over actual spoken practice
conversational drill or theatrics
getting on stage and performing a scene
with a professor or someone correcting
you
how effective do you think it could
possibly be
to teach students chinese without
speaking in the total
absence of speaking
how well can anyone learn a language
like chinese
sadly this is not a hypothetical
question many university programs
because they're trying economically to
be as efficient as possible they don't
want to pay
a professor or tutor to sit with you
one-on-one and practice dialogues back
and forth they just want to pay a
professor to stand at the front of the
room
behind a podium give a lecture to 40
students or
even more profitable give a lecture to
400 students
have them all take notes in silence have
them watch a movie in silence
have them listen to an audio cd and then
fill out a q a test
right do multiple choice exams while
listening uh
to an audio cd that's profitable for
university paying for one-on-one
language training where you really
practice speaking where the professor
hears you and catches the mistake you're
makes
you're making and corrects you and says
okay now say it again
that's expensive why has nobody ever
endeavored
to do a study where you practice the
efficacy of teaching a language
with no speaking component at all as
opposed to
25 percent of the curriculum being
speaking practice
as opposed to 50 being speaking practice
as opposed to 75 percent being speaking
practice
as opposed to 100
of the educational experience being just
the spoken language there are
specialists
there are experts who claim the most
effective way
to achieve language fluency is 100
focus on the spoken language in terms of
formal education and what it provides to
you
it seems intuitively obvious
that neither zero percent nor a hundred
percent
could be the best course of action
but the honest truth is we don't
know scientifically this is something
that's not
unknowable it's something that's just
unknown
i'm very skeptical about this kind of
question because i'm aware of what an
atypical language learner i am myself
i'm really deeply aware that what works
for me
doesn't work for 98 of other people
trying to learn a language so i'm
actually open to the
radical disruptive possibility that what
goes on in the classroom should be 100
spoken language
or that the most effective method could
actually be
zero percent spoken language because to
some extent this is a judgment on
human nature itself as a judgment on
what kind of person learns a language
with what kind of motivations
what they do outside of the classroom
what they learn despite formal education
there are a lot of variables here i
can't pretend to know
without doing the research the question
is
who is going to do the research in
discussing this kind of problem
pathetically the conclusion we come to
is there are very few sources of
innovation
in education who's going to try new
different exciting interesting things
possibly multi-millionaires possibly the
innovation comes from the government
possibly it comes from the military or
the diplomatic corps once in a long
while an eccentric millionaire or a
group of eccentric millionaires
put their money together to try
something new and different
in terms of what's possible within my
lifetime
we need more dissent we need more
demands for fundamental
radical change in education it's very
obvious now
what the economic demand is and what the
political demand is
for electric cars and for improvements
in solar power so we all know that
research is going to get done
and that change is going to happen but
there's absolutely nothing inevitable
about change or improvement in education
let alone language education in specific
as soon as people have university
credentials
it is in their interest to exaggerate
the value of those credentials nobody
seems to be motivated
economically or politically to
cross-examine
the mediocrity of our higher education
system
let alone to carry out experiments or
innovations
that could fundamentally improve it
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice
yes